What's your sin?
I was a horrible mother.
You are shamelessly sucking up
so that I'll free you...
...so you can run amok
and gum up my operation once again.
Who is there left for you to trust?
You and I are very much alike.
Except I didn't kill my brother.
The mark can be transferred
to someone who's worthy.
But when I call you, use the blade on me.
Don'! you think if Cain knew how
to remove the mark, he'd have done it?
- I'm done trying to find a cure.
- Cass is so close.
Maybe Cass is onto something with Cain,
but the answer is not out there.
It's with me.
So I'm gonna fight it
till I can't fight it anymore.
Lights out in five.
Hey, any mail?
Oh, the usual.
Postcards from anti-penalty folk.
Proposals from your lady admirers.
You said you were done with those.
Hey, how's your wife, by the way?
Amanda.
That's her name, isn't it?
You know, I killed an Amanda once.
My fourth.
I'd do your wife the same, buddy.
Only slower.
Two weeks from Tuesday, Tommy.
Let's do it.
Let's do it now! Hey!
Tolliver giving you the usual grief? Heh.
Nothing new.
I can't wait till he's gone.
Who the hell are you?
- How'd you get in here?
- I've gone by many names in this life.
The Father of Murder's one of them.
And by the state's count,
you've taken six lives yourself, Tommy.
Although by my count, it's nine.
Oh, come on.
You aren't one of those
"it wasn't me" -type fellas, are you?
Because I know you're a killer...
...just like me.
Yeah, I did it.
Honesty. That's good.
That's the spirit.
Now, I bet you're wondering
what I'm doing here.
Did I come to punish you or save you?
Well...
...the truth is, Tommy...
...I'm here to do both.
- The Zodiac.
- Seven victims.
- Dahmer.
- Seventeen.
That's some freaky stuff, man.
It's a whole new side of you.
It's called true crime, Dean. It's a hobby.
No, bass-fishing, needlepoint,
that's a hobby, okay?
Collecting serial-killer stats, that's...
- That is an illness.
- Heh.
- Got your badge?
- Yeah.
State the nature of your visit.
From the office of the Inspector General.
Got an appointment with the warden.
Thank you. Parking is to the left.
Look for visitor parking only.
All right, so, what are the stats
on this, uh, vanishing act here?
Tommy Tolliver was convicted
of six murders back in '09.
But those are just the ones that stuck.
According to the news, he escaped
from a locked cell on death row.
This inexplicable Houdini-esque escape.
What do we think? It's some sort
of a mass-murdering magician?
A teleporting demon, or a who-knows-what
that can walk through superman walls.
- Could be in our wheelhouse.
- Pfft. Yeah, your wheelhouse.
A hobby.
Warden Skeefe?
Uh, Inspectors Moore and Ranaldo.
We spoke on the phone.
Yeah. Welcome to death row.
Have a look.
But good luck finding anything
out of TDCJ compliance.
So why don't you tell me what happened?
The night Tolliver disappeared,
our little ship was run as tight as ever.
And I got documentation to prove it.
You stand by what the press is saying?
Locked cell, no security breach,
no guard misconduct?
Which press?
Mainstream media's calling for my head,
said I was grossly incompetent.
- But the tabloids, they're saying...
- They say it's magic. Heh.
That Tommy pulled off
some dark miracle to escape.
- You saying you believe that?
- There was some kind of magician...
...on the block last night,
but it wasn't Tommy.
That's right before Tolliver vanished.
- A brownout?
- That was my thought, but then...
- Is that one of the guards?
- Nope.
But I don't know who he is, how he got in,
or how he and Tolliver got out.
Can you zoom in on that?
Can and have. Too dark
to make out much of anything.
Do it.
Freeze it.
Blow it up.
Gonna answer that?
Not at this moment.
You're wasting your time.
I told you, I don't know where he is.
Me and Cain ain't friends.
He kills demons.
Low-level guys like me keep our distance.
You sure about that?
All right, all right.
He's been seen the past few months
making passes through Bogsmarsh...
...one county over.
No one knows why, what for.
Like I said, we keep our distance.
And that's all you know?
Yes.
Yes, I swear.
Okay.
Eighty-six last quarter,
but I only got credit for 48.
And I was working with Alban
on nearly all of those soul jobs.
If you don't arrive at a point within
the next 10 seconds, so help me I'll...
As a crossroads demon, I have received less
credit than I am due for soul collections...
...my King-
So you're looking for a promotion?
No, I'm just asking...
I'm merely suggesting that I get credit
for the work that I did beside Alban.
Equal credit for equal work.
- Fine, you can have your credit.
- Thank you.
The nerve of the wee man. Ugh.
Mother, you have an opinion
you'd like to share with the room?
Oh, no. Private thought.
Nothing to do with you
or the affairs of the court.
It's just not what I would do.
Oh, enlighten us all.
What would you do?
This demon asks you to equalize credit
for his and another's work.
Split the baby, if you will.
Well, heh...
...then I would well and
truly split the baby.
I'd cut this pulling, pathetic,
grade-grubbing git in two...
...literally.
Then I'd nail his bloody halves
to the doors of the court...
...a reminder to all
not to waste the king's time.
Whiners beget whiners.
You can't reward behavior like that.
Why I never gave in
when you asked for sweeties as a child...
...no matter how much you cried.
Well, you were a very...
...chunky child, darling. Bit of a bloater.
That's enough.
What'll it be, sir?
Let's do...
...what she said.
Wha...? No, no, no. No, no!
No, no, come on!
That's my boy.
- So?
- Cass is still not answering.
Great. Well, I have been looking
into Tommy Tolliver...
...seeing if I can figure out why Cain went
to the trouble of springing him.
- And?
- Still pretty unclear.
I did find this blotter out of Orlando
about his dad, Leon Tolliver.
Uh, like father, like son.
Convicted felon, fresh warrant
for an assault charge.
But he's gone missing.
Hasn't been seen in a week.
You think the two are connected?
I mean, police just assumed
he'd fled the warrant...
...but if Cain took Tommy,
it might not be a coincidence.
So, what, Cain's got a vendetta
against the entire family?
Maybe.
It's Cass.
- Hey, where you at?
- Illinois.
Hey, Cass, we got a lead.
Cain abducted a Texas death-row inmate
named Tommy Tolliver.
- He's dead.
- What?
- How do you know?
- Call it an educated guess.
Cain has been very busy.
Okay, where are you? We'll come to you.
I'll call you back.
Hello, Castiel.
What have you done?
These bodies?
Just cleaning up a mess
I made a long time ago.
Cain, I know what you were.
- But you'd resisted for so long.
- What can I say?
I got the taste back.
With Abaddon's army gunning for me,
I had to take up arms again.
I liked how it felt.
Those were demons. These...
Humans.
Well, the mark thirsts for all kinds.
This is a massacre.
Yes.
And soon it'll be a genocide.
My children, my whole poisoned issue.
A lot of them out there right now.
Killers, fighters, thieves.
Some more peaceful than others.
But they still carry it...
...the disease.
If the mark wants blood, I'll give it mine.
You'll kill them all?
You are Adam and Eve's firstborn.
Your descendants are legion.
Most I'm culling...
...one in 10.
- Of everyone?
- I've got time.
How's Dean, by the way?
I hear he did good. He took Abaddon down.
He's not well?
Even with the first blade hidden...
...Dean is losing his
fight against the mark.
- If we don't find a cure...
- There is no cure.
I'm living proof of that.
But don't worry about Dean.
I'll get to him in due time.
Sorry, Castiel.
You're not on my list.
Crowley.
Long day. I'm sure you must be tired.
- But I've had a wee idea.
- Yes?
The name Olivette means little to you.
High-ranking member of the Grand Coven.
The one who led the charge against me.
Really, it's a grudge, I
won't even deny it...
...but she's just come back to the States,
and I thought...
...if you in your kingly beneficence
would be so kind as to assist me...
...now would be an
excellent time to strike.
Well done, Mother.
Next time you run a long con...
...let more than a few hours of suspicious,
entirely uncharacteristic usefulness pass...
...before making your ask.
You think I had an ulterior motive?
That I've been manipulating you?
You couldn't be more transparent.
Heh. Well, duh.
Of course I was manipulating you.
I am your mother, after all.
Manipulation's who we are.
Oh.
My wee sausage.
What matter is it that I had a motive?
We had fun today, didn't we?
It was fine.
We could have more.
Get out of this dump,
a break from these foul-smelling suck-ups.
Flex our muscles in the real world.
And in the process
take out a miserable old witch...
...who's been standing in my way
for centuries.
What do you say?
I'm sorry I couldn't
bring better news, Dean.
- It's not your fault, Cass.
- Thank you.
Sheriff gave me a few more names,
some preliminary IDs on the bodies.
- And?
- And it seems to fit Case's story.
I mean, there's no way
to tell the relation to Cain, obviously...
...but he's wiping out entire families,
one after another.
So who's next?
Is he done with the Tollivers?
I think so. Leon didn't have
any siblings or any other children...
...and Tommy was never married, so...
Oh, come on. Damn it.
- What?
- Tommy did have a son. Estranged.
Lives with his mother in Ohio.
- Uh, Austin Reynolds, 12 years old.
- Ls the kid still alive?
As of an hour ago,
yeah, he updated his status.
But it's a kid.
You don't really think Cain would...?
Yes, he would.
There were old men
in those graves, Sam, women.
I mean, you heard Cass.
It's a fire sale. Everyone must go.
Where you going?
We know where Cain's gonna be.
The kid's in danger.
Okay, so, what, we track him down to Ohio,
and then what?
Then I'll do what I have to do.
I'll kill Cain.
When he gave me the mark,
Cain said that this day would come.
That after I killed Abaddon,
I would have to come and put him down.
- Great, you're taking orders from a madman?
- No, he wasn't mad then.
Cain resisted the mark for a long time.
Then I came kicking up trouble
about the blade.
I sent him down this path. This is on me.
- Doesn't mean you have to go after him.
- It does.
There's only one thing that can kill him.
The blade.
Dean's right.
Dean, wielding the blade
against Cain himself...
...win or lose...
...you may never come back from that fight.
I know.
I'll need a demon force
to get us past her security.
Two units of 10 should suffice.
Once we're inside,
we'll want to throw her off guard...
...mess with her head a little bit,
so I thought...
...Rune of Amaranth.
Illusion work. Smart.
Excuse me. I'll be right back.
Well, well, well, if it isn't...
Cain's back.
He's gone dark, and I need the blade.
Why would I do that for you?
Because you have as much reason
to want Cain off the board as anyone.
Cain has a kill list, and you're on it.
What do you say, Crowley, you in?
- Yes.
- Good, I'll text you the location.
Once she's well-flustered, I've got an
especially nasty spell to finish her off with.
Mother, it's not happening.
- What?
- Not today.
- Where are you going?
- Something's come up.
Olivette can wait. This can't.
Is that what I think it is?
- Not that it's any of your business.
- Let me guess.
Bringing it to your wee pal,
the Winchester boy.
You'd give that to the one person
who can harness its power against you.
- He's a threat to you.
- We've a common enemy, a bigger threat.
Well, if he's not a threat to your life,
he's certainly a threat to your credibility.
We've talked about what this does
to your reputation.
We're not having this conversation.
Consorting with hunters.
Oh, me, oh, my.
You honestly believe that they're your
friends, that they care about you?
- The kid here?
- He's nearby.
Upstairs in the barn.
He's playing with a basketball.
Cain will strike soon.
Maybe tonight, maybe tomorrow, but soon.
- And when he does...
- I got it.
You charge in with the blade, solo.
And the kid? What, we just watch and wait
until Cain attacks?
- I thought this was a rescue mission.
- We save the kid after Cain shows.
We know what Cain's after.
That's our only advantage.
We wanna trap Cain, we use it.
Twelve-year-old as bait.
I can't believe what I'm hearing.
Neither can I.
What's the matter, Crowley,
you suddenly grow a conscience?
- Too good to put a minor in danger?
- Don't give a damn about the kid.
I'm talking about the risk to us.
There is no us.
You're here for one reason,
that's to hand me the blade.
Yeah, about that.
Seeing as this is shaping up to be one...
...of those two-step,
capture-then-kill kind of deals...
...I think your buddies would agree it's
better to keep the blade out of your hands...
...until we've got Cain sewn up,
just to be safe.
Now, back to this plan of yours.
So...
...if this works and we capture Cain...
...then what?
We'll cross that bridge when we...
If we come to it.
You know last week when I said that I would
go down swinging when the time came?
I meant that I was at peace with that.
I just didn't realize
the time would come so soon.
Like right now.
I'm scared, Sam.
Someone there?
Hello, Austin.
What are you doing here?
I'm here to kill you.
No, you won't.
Run.
You can't stop me.
Don't. Please, don't.
- Illusion spell.
- Oh, yeah, real Austin is long gone.
Eighteenth-century magic.
If I had to hazard a guess,
Rune of Amaranth.
Good eye. Something I picked up
from my mother.
Well, I know you fear me.
So I can only assume...
Ah. Clever.
Won't hold me for long, you know.
Won't need to.
Cass. Hey.
- You okay?
- Fine.
It worked?
Yeah.
- My turn.
- Dean, look, we wanna help.
No.
No, with you in the ring...
...you'd just be a liability.
- Dean... - I'd be worried about
what he could do to you.
Or what I could.
Plus I need you three out here
to take out whatever comes out of there.
And I'm serious.
I mean, whatever comes out.
Happilly.
What guarantee do I have
that you'll give it back when you're done'?
I survive and I come out of there
and I don't give it back...
...you'll all have a much bigger problem
on your hands.
Dean?
I'm good.
Hello, Dean.
At a loss for words, my son'?
Allow me.
This is the part where you tell me
it's not too late...
...that I can lay down arms.
Abandon my mission.
We don't have to fight.
I'll spare us the formalities.
You're past talking down.
Cain, you're fully mental.
Oh, I prefer to think I've
finally gotten clear.
When I made my bargain with Lucifer,
killed Abel...
...I released a stain upon the earth.
A stain deeper and far more lasting
than mere precedence.
Your bloodline is tainted.
- So you say.
- So I know.
Not all killers are my descendants
and not all my descendants are killers...
...but enough are.
Enough for me to know that extinguishing
them is the least I owe this world.
Can you honestly tell me...
“that humanity's not better off
with fewer Tommys and fewer Leons?
Fewer yous?
And what about the kid?
He could go either way.
I prefer to be thorough.
How's it feel, Dean...
...holding the blade again?
It feels like a means to an end.
Then do it.
That seems a bit weaker than I would expect
from you with the blade.
I think you can do better.
- Unless...
- Ungh!
...you're holding back.
What is it, Dean? Do you think if you
hold back just enough, you won't succumb?
That you'll leave this fight
the same as you entered?
Look to my example, boy!
There is no resisting
the mark or the blade.
There is only remission and relapse!
You told me...
...that this day would come.
You told me that I would have to kill you.
Is that so?
I'm afraid you've misunderstood
my intentions here, Dean.
When your pet angel found my burial site,
I thought about ending him...
...and swatting him like a fly.
But then I thought about you.
Your biggest weakness,
the thing I noticed the moment I met you...
...your courage...
...your reckless bravado.
I let him go knowing
that he would report back to you...
...knowing you would bring into battle
the one thing that can kill me.
The one thing I truly want.
Oh, it's been too long.
That old feeling.
Makes me wonder how
I ever had the strength to resist.
This may be hard to believe
in light of what I'm about to do to you...
...but I care about you, Dean.
I truly do.
But I know I'm doing you a favor.
I'm saving you.
Saving me from what?
From your fate.
Has it never occurred to you?
Have you never mused upon the fact
that you're living my life in reverse?
My story began when I killed my brother...
...and that's where your story
inevitably will end.
No, never.
- Ungh!
- It's called the Mark of Cain for a reason.
First, first you'd kill Crowley. There'd be
some strange mixed feelings on that one...
...but you'd have your reason.
You'd get it done, no remorse.
And then you'd kill the angel, Castiel.
Now, that one...
...that, I suspect,
would hurt something awful.
And then, then would come the murder
you'd never survive.
The one that would finally turn you
into as much of a savage as it did me.
- No.
- Your brother, Sam.
The only thing standing between you
and that destiny is this blade.
You're welcome, my son.
What's the matter?
Tell me I don't have to do this.
Tell me that you'll stop.
Tell me that you can stop.
I will never stop.
Dean.
The blade.
You lied to me.
It's not the first time today.
Cain's list?
You weren't on it.
Hey, hey, hey.
You did it.
Dean, you did it.
Fergus...
I don't wanna hear it, the I-told-you-so's.
Not now.
What are you doing?
What's it look like? I'm leaving.
Another petty manipulation.
- No.
- Then what, Mother?
What do you want from me?
You can't understand
my disappointment or my pride.
You don't know this, but after I left you,
after I was forced to leave you...
...I heard of your death,
your mortal death.
I thought you were gone to me forever.
Then, hundreds of years later...
...and thousands of miles away...
...I find you.
The King of Hell.
And not by luck or accident.
You made that happen.
All by yourself.
You're not a mother. You can't know
what that pride felt like.
How huge it was.
But can you try to imagine, for me?
Now do you understand
why it breaks my heart...
...to see what a colossal numbnut
you've become?
You've got the crown,
but you're no ruler, not really.
A sad, bored, wee boy on a throne...
...who'll flop ass-up
the second those Winchesters...
...hunters who'd as soon see you dead
as have you to tea, ask you to.
You're no king. Not anymore.
You're their bitch.
Dean, um...
...you know, what you did back there...
...it was incredible.
You know, if you can do that
without losing yourself...
...that's cause for hope,
even without a cure.
Yeah, maybe.
So where's the blade?
Somewhere safe.
Good.
Well, if you guys will excuse me, I think
I'm gonna go sleep for about four days.
Of course.
How is he?
- Sam?
- Cass.
Dean's in trouble.